# Lab1 

Implement a linked list as a:  
a)Serial program  
b)Parallel program (based on Pthreads) with one mutex for the entire linked list  
c)Parallel program (based on Pthreads) with read-write locks for the entire linked list  


The implementation supports Member( ), Insert( ), and Delete( ) functions. Populate the
linked list with n random, but unique values. This uses a different random seed for each execution.  
Each value is between 0 and 216 – 1. 
Then this performs m random Member, Insert, and Delete operations
(simultaneously) on the linked list. 
Let mMember, mInsert, and mDelete be the fractions of operations of each type.
To simplify the implementation, a new value inserted into the list cannot be a value already in the list (it could
be a value that was initially added to the list, but later removed).

## Prerequisites

To build and run this project, you need the following software installed on your system:

- CMake (version 3.21 or higher)
- C Compiler with C11 support (e.g., GCC)
- Make (optional, but recommended for building)

## Project Structure

The project is organized into several files
The main application code is located in the `main.c` file, and it utilizes functions and data structures defined in the above directories.

## Building the Project

To build the project, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the project's root directory.

2. Create a build directory (e.g., `build`) to keep the build artifacts separate from the source code:

   ```shell
   mkdir build
   cd build
    ```
3. Run CMake to configure the project
    ```shell
   cmake -G "MinGW Makefiles" ..
    ```
4. Build the project using the selected build system (e.g., Make):
    ```shell
    make
    ```
    
5. If there's an error occuring make sure that there's a directory named `output` in the build folder.

This will compile the source code and generate the executable file named "Lab1."    



## Running the Application
After successfully building the project, you can run the application by executing the following command from the build directory:
```shell
./Lab1_Source
```

The "outputs" folder is where you can retrieve the results and data generated by the application for further analysis or visualization.
